= Ruby DocTest

Based on the original repository: http://github.com/tablatom/rubydoctest. This
is a new approach, but with the same goal, to treat tests within the source
code in the form of documentation.

== Description

Ruby version of Python's DocTest tool, but a bit different. Ruby DocTest
allows you to:

1. Write tests in IRB format and keep them as comments next to your Ruby code.
2. Write markdown documents with IRB format tests embedded in them.

== Synopsis

The ++ruby-doctest++ comes as an executable that takes a list of files:

  ruby -e doctest lib/*.rb
  ruby -e doctest simple.doctest

== Examples

Here is how you might use RubyDocTest within a ruby source file (say called five.rb):

  # test: add 5 and 5 to get 10
  # >> five_and_five
  # => 10
  def five_and_five
    5 + 5
  end

Here is an example doctest file (say called simple.doctest):

  # Simple test of RubyDocTest

  This is an example test

    >> 1 + 2
    => 3

  And here's a test that will fail

    >> 1 + 2
    => 4

See the doc directory of this project for more .doctest examples and documentation.

== Installation

  gem install ruby-doctest

Build from source:

  git clone git://github.com/hallison/ruby-doctest.git
  cd ruby-doctest
  make install

== Testing DocTest

Ruby DocTest uses itself to test and document itself.

  make test.all

== License

  Copyright (c) 2024 Hallison Batista
  Copyright (c) 2008 Tom Locke, Nic Williams, Duane Johnson

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
  this software and associated documentation files (the 'Software'), to deal in
  the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
  use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
  of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
  so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
  copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.
